update readme (#360)
predictive-analytics-lab/EthicML: README.md

# EthicML

[![Checked with mypy](http://www.mypy-lang.org/static/mypy_badge.svg)](http://mypy-lang.org/)
![](https://github.com/predictive-analytics-lab/EthicML/workflows/EthicML%20CI/badge.svg)

> EthicML is the premier library for performing and assessing __algorithmic fairness__.

Author: ```suggestion
EthicML is a library for performing and assessing __algorithmic fairness__.
```

> Unlike other libraries, EthicML isn't an education tool, but rather a __researcher__'s toolkit.

Reviewer: btw, did you mean to make these terms bold? or were you confused by Roam's syntax and wanted to make them italic?

Author: well, I started off my wanting to make them italic, then they came out bold and I didn't mind it

Reviewer: I see

> Unlike other libraries, EthicML isn't an education tool, but rather a __researcher__'s toolkit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike other libraries, EthicML isn't a pedagogical tool, but rather a __researcher__'s toolkit.
```

Other algorthimic fairness packages are useful, but given that we primarily do research,
a lot of the work we do doesn't fit into some nice box.
For example, we might want to use a 'fair' pre-processing method on the data before training a classifier on it.
We may still be experimenting and only want part of the framework to execute,
or we may want to do hyper-parameter optimization.
Whilst other frameworks can be modified to do these tasks,
you end up with hacked-together approaches that don't lend themselves to be built on in the future.

> Because of this, we built the premier fairness toolkit for research.

Author: ```suggestion
Because of this, we built EthicML, a fairness toolkit for researchers.
```

Features include:
- Support for multiple sensitive attributes
- Vision datasets
- Codebase typed with mypy
- Tested code
- Reproducible results

### Why not use XXX?

There are an increasing number of other options,
IBM's fair-360, Aequitas, EthicalML/XAI, Fairness-Comparison and others.
They're all great at what they do, they're just not right for us.
We will however be influenced by them.

> Sometimes, we even use their implementations.

Author: ```suggestion
Where appropriate, we even subsume some of these libraries.
```

- S - Sensitive Label
- Y - Class Label

__Developer note__: All methods must assume S and Y are multi-class.

We use a DataTuple class to contain the triplet

```python
triplet = DataTuple(x: pandas.DataFrame, s: pandas.DataFrame, y: pandas.DataFrame)
```

> In addition, we have a variation, the TestTuple which contains the pair

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, we have a variation: the TestTuple which contains the pair
```

Reviewer: "There is also a variation..."

```python
pair = TestTuple(x: pandas.DataFrame, s: pandas.DataFrame)
```

> This is to reduce the likelihood of a user accidentally evaluting performance on their training set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is to reduce the risk of a user accidentally evaluating performance on their training set.
```

but given the amount of splicing on conditions that we're doing, it feels worth it.

### Separation of Methods

We purposefully keep pre, during and post algorithm methods separate. This is because they have different return types.

```python
pre_algorithm.run(train: DataTuple, test: TestTuple)  # -> Tuple[DataTuple, TestTuple]
in_algorithm.run(train: DataTuple, test: TestTuple)  # -> Prediction
post_algorithm.run(train_prediction: Prediction, train: DataTuple, test_prediction: Prediction, test: TestTuple)  # -> Prediction
```
where `Prediction` holds a pandas.Series of the class label.
In the case of a "soft" output, `SoftPrediction` extends `Prediction` and provides a mapping from
"soft" to "hard" labels.
See the documentation for more details.

### General Rules of Thumb

- Mutable data structures are bad.
- At the very least, functions should be Typed.
- Readability > Efficiency.
- Warnings must be addressed.
- Always write tests first.

## Future Plans

The aim is to make EthicML operate on 2 levels.

1. We want a high-level API so that a user can define a new model or metric, then get publication-ready
results in just a couple of lines of code.

> 2. In addition, we understand that really ground-breaking work involves tearing up the rulebook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. We understand that truly ground-breaking work sometimes involves tearing up the rulebook.
```

> So we want to also expose a lower-level API so that a user can make use of as much, or little of the library

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, we want to also expose a lower-level API so that a user can make use of as much, or little of the library
```

as is suitable for them.

> We've built everything with this aproach in mind, but we still have a way to go.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've built everything with this philosophy in mind, but acknowledge that we still have a way to go.
```

# Contributing

> If you're interest in this research area, we'd love to have you aboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're interest in this research area, we'd love to have you aboard &#128674.
```

> Whether your skills are in coding-up papers you've read, writing tutorials, or designing a logo, please reach out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details check out CONTRIBUTING.md.
Whether your skills are in coding-up papers you've read, writing tutorials, or designing a logo, please reach out.
```
